Hello, dear listener, and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that thinks that the old Duvai hand axe is a less important and impressive invention than soap and water.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm Don.
And I'm a cow skin throw full of fleas and chicken bones for this one.
So close.
I thought the word was going to be fleas.
Let's see.
So tonight we are watching what I'm just going to come out and say is the worst episode of Space 1999 that we have covered so far.
You're not alone in the production team with that opinion.
Okay.
So this is series one, episode 15.
The full circle, and I have really nothing more to say about it than that. really not very good.
Looking forward to Matthew Waterhouse's debut.
Yeah, yeah.
There's some bums in sort of diaphanous outfits and stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
You do get the impression that 11 year old Andrew Smith was sitting at home watching this and going, well, that's fucking awful. do better than that.
Yes, and he was right.
It turns out.
So I have actually no memory of watching this at all.
I do because it's got hotties.
Yeah, it does.
There's one bum that I will point out a little bit later, and as usual, of course, the entire base is populated by very attractive models, which is part of the reason that we're here in retrospect.
The catalogue models.
That is true Really, like, at best, A-Lister catalogue models.
No, no, no, that's true.
Anushka Hempel isn't in this week's episode.
But I don't know.
There's really nothing very much going for this.
So I'm sure that we'll run out of things to say unless we go more or less straight in.
And so Richard tried his hardest to guess my secret word and was just millimetres away from what I actually chose.
So the secret word that I'm going to say in a minute is lice.
And the next time I say that word, I want both Richard and you, the listener at home to press play on your televisual device.
And so here goes Lice.
And we're off.
And again, St.
Patrick's Day.
They don't give it up.
Midori alert is my favourite thing that you've said.
So we have an Eagle 6 at last with a bit of droop. of us are getting any younger.
Did you notice the nose coat?
Okay.
Where do those fricking doors slide to?
Okay, we're back in the room.
So they...
There are air ferns?
Do you remember this?
Like those ferns, like the...
Did you see the name?
I was going to save that one.
Yeah, yeah, Mum had that.
Very period.
Absolutely.
There was no one that did not have a maidenhair fern in the bathroom.
No, in the 70s, absolutely.
That's absolutely right.
Martin's wearing it right now.
And there's Barbara looking. concerned?
concerned.
Slightly startled.
Not yet.
She will be very startled.
I'm excited that we have Eagle 6 and Paul gets to play with his edition one Nintendo for this one again.
I love this so much.
I think this is a train enthusiasts. wet dream for the the set, the model that they run their trains on.
I just, I'm sorry, I can only see the maiden here.
It is.
It's beautiful.
It's Brian Johnson again and Nick Alder, as always.
I mean, the whole show is that though.
Really, Don, isn't it?
Like, um, I could just sit and watch eagles and pink tunnels.
Dr. Freud all week.
So we do run out of Eagle models this episode and there will be a cardboard. eagle model in the background.
Spoilers.
Yeah, I know.
See, you notice it.
The most exciting Derek Martinez Dalek moment of the episode.
Oh, hang on. prepare to be startled.
Oh, she does look quite startled.
She does look reasonably star.
John.
Why don't we have the many faces of merch?
Hello.
Is this no?
The appearance of American?
No such thing as a Zen face.
No such thing as Zempic thighs in the 90s.
That was quite a big lad and the lazy Susan.
Yes.
Ah, what can we say?
Well, startled.
It startled me so far.
I was thinking when I was watching this this afternoon.
And by the way, I took time off to work to watch this and I regret that decision.
Did you build them for it?
That's more important.
But I, watching, watching it.
I kind of went, I never want to skip these titles.
Even though I'm literally about to see all this.
And it's the, it's a lost art of having interesting titles in television, I think.
Who else does this?
Five minutes. really beautifully tight editing on the shots and the exposition and how we move through it.
Well, it's a Jerry and Sylvia, Sylvia Anderson trademark.
You know, I can't...
They started the shows to do it.
Does Battlestar Galactica do it?
Actually, yes, Battlestar.
Battlestar Galactica.
And maybe it takes it from this, actually. wouldn't surprise me at all.
So they started it with Thunderbirds.
Right, okay.
It's brilliant.
I mean, I think that, like, I, you know, let's face it, watching those opening titles and then maybe pressing stop and going off and doing something else is probably a better use of your time.
Yeah, I love how, okay, we're heading into a situation.
It's a big emergency.
Helena, what do you need?
Oh, 3 people.
Well, they're hard down a few.
It's episode 15.
We know, with, you know, we're like numbers.
Julian Glover ate a few of them.
They start in that tiny little wrap thing.
Hi, Nick.
They started off with an autopsy room right next to medical.
No one was optimistic.
That's right.
So I had a theory about why they don't turn Nick into a cave personage.
Given the savings on the on the makeup budget that they could have got.
Because he's Australian and therefore born to the world.
No, I actually think there is, like, this has the shittest, most half-assed kind of theme happening, but they do, in a sense, turn him into a caveman in the sense that he's wandering around wanting to hurt and take revenge on people with a gun without properly knowing what's going on.
Do you know what I mean?
So there is something...
I'm sorry, 90s.
The 90s.
There is something happening here.
There is something happening here, but what's happening here thematically is just generally bad.
I think.
How can you say that when there are eagles and bongos?
Oh, the music.
Music is amazing.
Children we need to note the writers.
We also need to note that suddenly we're getting the opening credits like minutes after we've come back from the...
Yeah, from the...
Sandra, it's not gonna be a good week for you, sweetheart.
I'm sorry.
Dawn, what were you going to say?
Oh, no, nope, I'm good.
Okay.
It's been covered.
Well, we've got.
Well, the K fan music, I adored.
Yeah, it's really good, isn't it?
Yeah Boom, boom, boom.
So this is written by 2 writers who actually have a probably the most cred for screenwriting in the history of this show's season one.
So it is, who can I say?
Jesse Louis Lasky Jr. and his wife.
So you know who Jesse Louis Jesse Jr. was?
Did he write Godfather?
Possibly no, that was Mario Putza.
He, um, his daddy.
Hey daddy, started a little thing called Paramount Pictures.
I'm so sorry, Stephen Colbert, but they did.
He came so he came to 1999 with screenplay credits on more than 30 movies.
I know believe it or not.
What were they?
Reap the Wild Wind, 1942.
Samson and July, which I've seen, it's terrible.
Oh no.
You remember?
You have a soft swad for that.
Yeah, well...
Come on.
Yeah, it's victim mature.
What?
Brandon?
Just, oh, just microphone.
Well, we've not got the cardboard eagle yet.
And they did they did Hell and High Water, 10 Commandments.
I mean, all the, it's all the sword and saddle, bodice rippers.
You kind of know what you're going to get, but they were living in the UK.
So they did the Saint Danger Man protectors.
We've probably done a bond finger on it.
What can I say?
But his 2nd wife was Pat Silverlaski is, I should say, collaborated with him on a number of his of their latest groups, including the Wizard of Baghdad in 1960 and 7 when from Hell, much like this podcast in 61.
But anyway, they were friends of Sylvia, Sylvia Anderson's and she recommended them.
However, Jerry, you know, didn't have a voice in this, he wasn't concerned, but Christopher Penfold was very concerned as being the script lead, the script editor lead saying that, oh, hang on, we have to mention...
Yeah, we are missing this tiny miniature moon buggy with miniature people.
Well, the 1st time we see it, we get to see it 3 more times.
And the Californian beach buggy?
Also, a hottie and a purple sleeve.
No good will.
He's the one with a he's the one with a bum.
He is quite probably here.
Italian?
Yeah, of course he is.
It's not very attractive ones were.
So then a 2 banana, 3 banana form.
Correct.
They are driving the banana split.
That is correct.
I love those.
And again, it's run out of battery.
Also, Barbara Bain said, it was the most uncomfortable ride I've had since my honeymoon.
No, she did not say that it is the most uncomfortable, right?
It was really unpleasant.
It doesn't look like it was very far.
I think they're just lazy lazy people.
So have they never been on location before?
No, this is the 1st one.
Oh, the 1st one shot.
It's SP 15.
Yeah.
So I think it's about the same as the broadcast.
Well, broadcast, it's 15.
Okay, so it's also filmed at 15.
Oh God, Sandra, you're going to have a terrible time.
So wow, okay.
I hadn't realised.
How often do they go on location?
Not very often, do they?
No, they step off the set into the car park.
Do you know why they don't go on location?
It costs money because of mighty and babs, but we'll get to that.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
We'll get that to in a bit.
Nick was all up for it.
Sandra was just really grateful.
So here we have...
This is not...
Yeah, that's right.
No, he is full circle.
It's actually not. the back.
It's actually the garden at the back of the studios because we might as well mention it because Marty and Bab said, we can't go on location.
We might get mobbed by fans.
At which point Jerry said, this hasn't been broadcast. in England.
No, no, but you know, we always get... anyway, they would not leave the confines of the studio.
So this is actually just the backyard that they had to dress and make this pond thing and this huge footprint.
It's very Kenny Everett.
They had to dig a big fucking hole in the garden as well.
No, that is black park.
So when Nick Tate, as you're about to see.
Oh, so Nick will go on.
Nick will go on, okay, she's Australian.
He's up for it.
But the staple guns are ready, so something horrible.
Yeah, there you go.
But no, this is actually just the backyard of the studio.
It's why we have this really stupid plot device that, um, Koenig and Dr. Russell have gone off ahead of the other party.
They've taken the car.
So the rest of the party have to walk with all the equipment for some reason and it's because Babs and Marty don't want to.
No, the 1st on the coal sheet.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
So what's the high vis?
What's the high vis sleeve mean?
Well, the yellow sleeve means pilot?
No, but what's that?
That's not yellow.
That's orange.
That's pilot.
Oh, okay.
I mean, it means I fly.
I fly down. there's a model.
See, there are a bunch of models here.
She's got a medical person down there, which makes no sense.
Oh, hang on.
No, they're the 1st team down, aren't they?
Oh, yeah, because they're still looking for that.
We're missing hotty man, who is called spearman.
Spearman, who is kind of hot.
Yeah.
You know what?
For a 2nd I thought it was Jim Dale.
It could be.
Look at him.
He looks like Jim Dale.
Just before.
It's Oliver Cotton.
Sorry.
Cave from Indiana Jones one.
It actually is because it's Black Park.
So yeah, it is.
This is literally the backyard.
Because anyone, anyone who might listen to the podcast and watch Doctor Who might recognise the set from full circle.
The Anarthurous version of this.
Yeah, that's right It's the totally same location.
And everything else.
Legopolis, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Okay.
So one thing that they do not establish very well is that there is missed.
Oh, see, look at that.
That model is really unusually good, isn't it?
It is beautiful.
It's not the usual prolapse planet that they visit.
Sorry.
It's meant to be New Earth.
Yeah. a whole lot in this script.
It's called Retha, remember, which is an anagram of earth?
It's not explained.
Yeah, did you get it?
Did you get it?
So the director.
Is that Bob Keller?
Bob, Bob.
Bob, Bob, everyone.
Oh, look, hang on.
Poise, beautiful equal shot.
The model shots, we need to acknowledge because, you know, fanboys, but the shots at the models and Black Park are, to me, perfect as a match.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Lighting and mistiness and even the maiden hair ferns.
I mean, it's...
Sure, it's not Tracy Island.
This whole episode waiting for Thunderbird 2 to pop up.
The palm trees aren't on hinges.
That's how you tell.
So Bob Kellett said, I had to rewrite all of it because it was rubbish.
Bit harsh.
But the I don't know.
But the husband-wife team for harsh, but fair.
Husband and wife team of Louis Lasker Jr. and his wife had never written an SF script in their lives.
It had all been sorted.
Had they ever seen television before?
Funny you should say that.
So Chris Penfold went, nah, in an English accent and Bob Kellett said, no.
So they barely left Alpha in the original script.
They passed through a warp, misty warp thing, but that was in the middle of space.
Oh, okay. where everything went woo. how that would have worked out.
So they're all K of people in the solarium on alpha.
I gather because we don't have the original script, but we do have Martin Landau's notes.
And the people who write the Catacombs website sort of speculated what it appears to be.
Don't give away our primary source, but yes, yes. was there's a misty cloud around this planet.
And so when the eagle comes back, there's a cave person aboard person.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah. and thighs that could heal the sick children of hot countries.
Oh, look at that descent.
Nathan just drooled a bit there.
Helena goes all Diane Fossey.
She does a bit, doesn't she?
So what I think that they don't manage to do is establish where the mist is and who goes through it and who's wearing the Joan Collins wigs for this episode?
Oh my god, the wigs are amazing, aren't they?
So the story is, of course, that Barbara took hers home, didn't she?
Like, uh, to scare the children with.
Do you want to get to that when she appears?
Well, let's wait till she appears.
That's wait till she appears.
Sandra's having a lovely time in her comfort space dinner.
Oh, and she is wearing a bra?
Is she wearing a bra?
She always wearing a bra.
She's ready for the worst week of her life so far.
And I just want to say, like, these craft are meant to be designed to be like long haul, but she's having to sleep on the sofa in an L shape.
Yeah.
In a fucking makeshift sleeping bag that she's unzipped.
What is this, premium economy?
Yes.
There's Nick ready.
So one thing I don't understand, is there a camera on the front of the com lock that lets you see...
Yeah, where is the little, how come he can see her?
There must be a time.
She can see here.
There must be a tiny lens, which I can't see.
No, that doesn't matter because later on that stops working for important plot reasons.
Oh, sub project. not tiny.
I know.
Look at his dick.
Look at it there.
It's a fucking hang there.
Put some pants on me.
Actually, don't. like, that's fine. note to our listeners.
This is an Australian podcast.
Oh, a big swinging Australian dick. saying, look, I was quite proud of not having, no, a lot of commando action in this one.
Yeah, yeah Also, but but acting.
Look, my Jim Crushes tracksuit pants are less revealing, though.
No, that was amazing.
That was astounding.
And his and his Sandra say...
Did you dress for the occasion?
No, he's definitely not.
I was, I mean, look, I'm mostly looking in that area when men are on the screen on...
We've all had...
We've heard your opinion.
But this, I mean, this was more than I was expecting.
I think this is the episode that made Joan Collins agree to join them.
It's just occurred to me.
There may have been less wardrobe oversight being on location.
So maybe the rest of the time when he's in studio.
It's like...
Put it away.
No, put your jockstrap on like everyone else.
Because we can't have that line and it's like no add-on location.
He has to dress himself.
He's like, okay, I'm going...
I'm getting it out.
I'm going to dress to the left.
No, because I'm Australian.
I love that little moment where Paul Morrow again realises he could be in charge by the end of this.
That's right.
Just leave.
I really feeling it for Sandra.
Like Sandra.
And then these men, fuck the men on Alfro so bad.
And so they say make me lunch and she doesn't go, yeah, fuck off.
She makes them lunch.
Like, what is going on?
Well, she microwaved it.
Yeah, whatever.
It's like, get the fucking computer to do with David.
So how did primitive cave people manage to dig such an elegant, straight lined pit?
Oh, see?
In such a short time, too.
No, no, no, no, no.
The BBC crew is really good.
Well, sorry, ATV?
Well, yeah, you're correct. had a better budget.
Sorry, I need to be closer.
This is where Nick shows that he grew up in the outback.
I mean, this is the sort of central problem with this, isn't it?
That it's not the 1st furry pit he's fallen into.
No, but that 40,000 years ago, the people were the same as us. you know what I mean?
We now realise it's 70,000 for Australia.
Well, of course, earlier than 40,000 years ago.
So there's none of this.
Exactly the same.
Yeah, they had speech.
You know, they can for one another.
They looked after their sick.
They buried their dad. quite nice chest and they wore incredible wigs.
And hammering.
There's some hairdressers and telephone hygienists.
Thank you.
Oliver Cotton's really good and I've not noticed him on the crew beforehand.
He's pretty I think.
Are we sure he hasn't escaped from Chairs World Tour?
I just want to point out Alan's had like 7 opportunities to grab his gun.
Yeah, I thought he'd lost his gun.
I can't see his... staple gun.
I did check afterwards.
He dropped the com lock, but the gun is on the belt.
Well, maybe he's just been incredibly...
Oh, no, no, no. thought his gun was his penis.
He's just forgotten that he's not.
He's gone commando and forgotten about the gun.
Yeah, I think you might be right.
In case we didn't mention.
This is an Australian podcast.
Oh, that's going to hurt.
Also, Freud.
See your freckle from here.
Dr. Freud.
Which was the prettiest.
We need to have a vote.
I think it's the one on the right up on the rim.
No, no, I was enjoying that guy's stomach just now.
Oh, okay, yeah, yeah.
Oliver.
Well, they're all quite skinny, even as the fans noted at the time, except for one.
So you can spot the one who's actually a bit beefy pants.
I like that he's doing a whole lot of Stanley Kubrick with the Comlock.
Yes, yeah, that's exactly what it made me think of.
The one on the right, certainly...
So how come she can't see him?
She's not looking because she's a bit hysteric when she's a baby.
Okay.
Also, yeah, we need to talk about the hair.
Also a nice trimmed beard, which I wouldn't have expected with that hair.
Again, hairdresser's arc be.
Well, it's so good to talk to you, Alan.
Yeah.
Mostly furs.
I think you're right.
There is no reverse camera because she can't see him.
How come he can see her?
Maybe who gets to see who?
She's in a workstation.
Oh, okay.
He has he's got that option in teams where it's like it doesn't automatically start.
Because you may not have pulled your pants up.
It's a cafe.
It's a cat face.
Oh, God, who remembers lockdown?
That's eyebrow acting there.
I think Nick's...
It is Planet of the Delphons. not wrong.
But acting.
Oh my goodness.
Tiny pants.
Do you want to hear some hotties?
Yeah, go on.
So one of the actors was not wearing undergarments during the shoot.
I think I know who it is.
Want to have a bit of fun guessing who that was.
Barbara.
Barbara is a bit ripe for the shoot.
This is true.
She did ask again for her little bit of leopard thing to be shorter, but she's done that before.
She's she's got MO.
She did that in Mission of the Joan Collinses.
That is why they called her Barbara Payne.
They literally did.
So, well, again, she wouldn't they wouldn't freaking go on the shoot.
I mean, look at Nick.
He's bloody acting for all his Australian worth.
Oh, my God.
He's put his dick away, though.
Oh, only for the...
The wardrobe lady's caught up with him.
Chasing him through Black Park with a G-string. not letting you out of the hole. until you put your jock strap on.
It does have spangles on it.
There's my gun.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, duh. there the whole time.
And I think he shat himself.
Oh, quick, prepare them lunch.
They're men.
The man are coming. drooping.
I'm having a day.
I know, Sandra. you're a girl.
Why don't you open the fucking door?
I know.
And now close the door.
Close the door.
Yeah, but he's actually...
Yeah, but he's hotter than anything she's seen for the last 15 weeks.
She's been stuck with fucking Paul. you know, like also.
Also, I really remember this from 7677 just feeling, oh, God.
I really wanted her to grab a gun here and just stun him.
Yeah, yeah, she's pathetic.
It's so miserable. is utterly girly.
I mean, she bites him that's cold.
No, she misses.
She's hopeless.
Also, he's wearing platforms, did you notice?
And there absolutely has to be a missing shot here where he knocks her out and they've decided, no, that's too violent.
No, she's fainted, pushing her head as he turns.
Right.
That is the implication.
Okay.
Cardboard, cardboard eagle on the left.
Now, yes, that's when I drew in an exercise book.
I love those cars so much.
I love the banana splits.
Whee.
Okay, fanboy fanboy moment.
I want to hear something bizarre?
They were dropped in Normandy.
No, they're not that old.
Yes, there was a version of them that was World War 2 and not.
Some of the troops drop with them because they're...
But they've got a battery.
They're not a fuel.
They're battery.
Yeah, but they had batteries then.
They just weren't very...
They threw all the best.
John, that's why you're here.
Well, they're very manoeuvrable.
Yeah, and they float and they go across water.
I love that.
Yeah, they are.
Thank you for pointing that out.
Normandy, but they were there.
They are an ATV and they were licensed as an ATV.
So they were actually, you couldn't number plate them.
You could drive them on the road.
Okay, now we get to hottie action.
For the fanboys at home, does anyone recognise the set?
It is where Brian Blessed was on Ultimately.
There are little strands of Brian Blessed left about.
And there's a woman.
Yeah, there's a woman touching Sandra's bum in a 2nd there's going to be a man touching Sandra's bum.
Yeah, because that's what we're here for.
There's no interpency coaching.
Here we are, bum.
There is no HR on this planet.
So when I think the cave paintings in Lascoe are discovered around about this time, am I crazy?
Because they're doing them, they are doing them on the walls here, but I think they're discovered in the early 70s.
I could be completely wrong about that.
But they're older than 40,000 years.
Oh, yeah, who knows?
I mean, who knows it here?
No one gives a shit.
They can't even speak. these cavemen because we don't care.
And in a way, in a way, the idea that primitive people don't have proper emotions and the ability to reason and talk and stuff like that is how we get colonialism.
I mean, this whole thing for Babylon 5 podcasts.
This whole thing is really kind of terrible.
Also, Sandra, why is she being blind again?
It's very annoying.
But no motivation.
You're blind.
Again, as usual.
So what I think is something that also that poor mammoth.
No one's...
What they are, where did the mammoth come from?
Also, what happened to the thing with the big feet?
Why do we get to say that?
Oh, Joan Collins turns up late.
Yeah, okay, yeah.
I mentioned that's the tasks.
Yeah, I know.
There's a lot that didn't make it to the screen.
But I think what kind of happens is that, like, there's kind of a kind of bullshit.
Oh, we had one of those as a kid.
Did you have that thing?
The coffee urn thing?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You pumped it?
It's not an Australian invention?
No, no, with an air pushing thing. possibly.
That's why we've got Nick Tate with his TV dinner.
And their asbestos fire logs.
And butt acting.
But I reckon for a while I was uncertain whether Sandra was turning into a caveman or not.
Because she hits the guy with the rock.
And that's the point.
Like she hits Martin Landau with a rock, you know, basically anyone who's ever met him is going to have wanted to do that, probably.
It was on her rider, then.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm going to do this, I'll wear the pants, Bob, but I have to be able to hear John with a rock.
I just want to say that I'm actually really, really impressed with Barbara Bain's legs.
She, you know, she's clearly a, she's clearly a person who takes care of herself.
She's got really strong thighs and hamstrings.
Ah, why is she screaming?
Because it's the ad break.
Yeah, because she screams, but then she realises it's not she realises and then she screams and then goes, I actually think the shots are in the wrong award.
Yes, I think you're right.
It doesn't work, does it?
I think she's I think she's just realised that's Bab's own moustache.
Why are they doing that?
Like, the director doesn't think we'll get it.
I quite like it.
I quite like the flashing to their real faces because it's the same action.
Yeah, and it's kind of disorientating.
We don't know whether that Sandra's perception or if that's meant to be their own psyche breaking through.
It's nicely done, isn't it?
Yeah, it's a bit of, it's a bit of ambiguity in a very unsubtle script.
Well, again, it's completely rewritten. was much more complex.
It needs to speak slower and louder.
She wants to communicate because she's foreign.
The she's foreign. that's right People speak louder to her, I think.
Who remembers the alternate script?
Has anyone read Martin's Landau's notes?
could quote you.
They're not that interesting.
Really?
Yeah, it wasn't very SF.
It was more lost to Horizon.
So it was more lost Horizon, which we've talked about on other stories as you go through.
The mist was in space through.
They brought a caveman back to Alpha.
It didn't go well.
Well, I mean, part of the problem is that they don't make it very clear where the mist is and who's going through it and who isn't going through it and how she gets there without having gone through the mist.
And like that, that becomes more important towards the end where, you know, they discover the solution is to lure all the cavemen back through the mist so they all turn into our orphans again.
You do realise this is the Space 1999 version of Picnic at Hanging Rock.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Miranda turned into a caveman.
Well, picking nits off the other girl.
I will get to that.
Who's the chubby redhead then?
It's also the people that time forgot.
And it's before the film version of that.
But in the people that time forgot, you do have cave people who evolve by going to a certain place.
Okay.
And of course, that was in the book.
That was in the book as well.
And so we have that, we have that here.
But, and, you know, 4 years earlier, we had it with Bob Baker and Dave Martin in Doctor Who and the Mutant.
Who's your daddy?
It is a little bit videos that we might have heard of, but not watched.
In my Philistine way.
I kind of felt it was space 1000000 BC.
Yeah.
Oh, no, I think it's about to get into that.
Bikini.
Oh, absolutely.
It's that.
And space 1999 is not above that.
And of course, the source material, like 2001.
Oh, Kirby wires, we had 40,000 years ago as well.
Also, ow.
Ow.
I'm not a marshmallow.
Oh my god, this is polyester.
What are you doing?
That's true.
You know the worst part?
Those ants when we were chilling without standing in front of the Vulcan 2 bar heater in a polyester 90?
Terrifying.
At this point, we can probably mention that Juliet Landau, who you might remember from Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Talked about her mother rehearsing for this episode when she was a child because she brought one of her school friends home and Mummy was in the backyard covered in black soot and playing with the dirt practising to be a cave personage.
That's what she said.
Do we believe that?
Because she's mental.
See, yeah, see, that version of the story, I believe, because it's become garbled to Juliet bringing home a boyfriend, but Juliet would have been nine.
Bringing home a school friend makes a lot more sense.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And also, if it was a boyfriend coming home for the 1st time, it wouldn't just be, oh, I brought him home, it would be, Mum, can I bring around my boyfriend on Friday?
Yeah, can you try and remember not to be aware.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah.
Can you not wear the wig from work?
Stop eating paste.
Now that appears to say brain heart and eyes.
Oh, is that what it says?
Well, I'm not quite sure what the, well, I thought they were, it was like activity.
Has she closed her stand and exercise?
Yeah.
She spies the rings.
That's that question.
Why did Sandra agree to wear the...
She was a woman and she had to do what she was fucking told, are they?
It's the pinup poster signing. bonus.
Pretty fantastic, isn't it?
So violent, that shot.
It's so violent.
And it's shocking that he's still alive the way that that's shot.
Um, But yeah, also, like her her uniform is, her, yeah, her uniform is torn before she is on the skins.
But and also those skins are like nothing else the other women are wearing. you want to know why?
Do you want to know why?
Bob Kellett insists.
It's real leopard skin, and Bob Kellett insisted, and of course, he hired it, and it was full of life. there we go. and once again, Good old Xenia talks about being utterly covered in verticaria.
So her skin reacted.
She was bright red.
I don't know why we can't see it on the film because she said, I was a complete rash.
All I could do was not do the lines and just yell because I was screaming.
But luckily, I was blind, drunk.
All of the...
Randy to keep you warm.
And thank you.
You read this as well.
So Ron Fry, who was production guy, she was freaking freezing, it's black...
It's black. you know, Black Park. right.
She's right here where we're watching it now.
She's not acting.
So he gave us It's the old goons thing.
She had so, which there were drink between takes.
She was so drunk.
She said, I could hardly work, walk, all the stumbling work as well.
All that stumbling.
It's not acting.
It's just me not being able to walk.
And yes, she hates absolutely everyone who was involved.
And cursed... tits kept falling out of her outfit as well.
Excuse me, I'm writing.
Like she wasn't allowed to wear underwear under it, you know.
No, she was not allowed.
No, thank you.
Hello, hottie.
She...
Well, I don't know why. everyone else is.
Yes.
But Xenia isn't wearing anything underneath the skin.
And that was apparently Bob Keller as well.
He went, trust me, it'll be verisimilitude.
You will feel the part.
I'm feeling my parts now.
I spent most of the time wanting to do rocky coalback lines.
You can hear the dialogue.
It's just.
She's not wearing knickers for fuck's sake.
Yeah, you can hear the lines, can't you?
Yeah, yeah.
Constantly.
Without the dialogue as we're doing this.
I've forgotten all of the callbacks I wanted to do.
Because there's so little dialogue.
Actually, she's not the only one because Nick's not wearing Nick because either, huh?
But by choice.
He has done that yoga thing of sucking in his testicles.
You probably type them.
Tantric things.
Tantric thing?
withdraw your testicles.
Yeah, tantric or martial arts thing of like shocking.
I think just being scared enough will do it.
I thought just terrifying cold.
That's right.
So here's Victor, also not wearing underwear.
But that's in his contract.
I mean, who sleeps in a polyester sleeping bag that close to a fire?
Well, that's it.
They have 3 spaceships to sleep in.
What the hell?
But there are no marshmallows in those pictures.
Which isn't clear in the script.
It's a huge distance from the Eagles.
Yeah.
It's not just a trot.
But they have a thing.
They've got a golf buggy.
Yeah, apparently it is a long drive from the thing.
Although they've only got one.
Go on.
And the funny thing is, right?
Earlier on, when Victor was trying to get in touch, he says, oh, I want to give him some news about the autopsy and now he's calling in to say, is there any information about the autopsy?
We haven't heard any of the news was, yeah, we're still doing the autopsy.
The news while it's going well.
The news was, we've cut him open.
You're not going to believe this.
Organs.
Yep.
He's still dead.
You'll be pleased to hear.
Because that's not a given.
From the other episode. when they had the adult colouring book of the entrance.
Yes, that's right.
Oh, okay, so the mist.
So here we go.
Just feels like the morning after one of Victor's parties, really.
But I mean, part of the problem is that no one's really giving a shit.
And so we aren't we aren't getting any sense of where anything is.
And so we don't see when we're going into the mistra of going out of the mist.
That's good point.
The only one who's convincing is Martin Lander.
Yeah, but that's because he's been bashed in the head with...
Oh, he's also playing Asterisk's soothsayer character.
Get a fix in the soothsay.
No, there was a book asterisks in the soothsayer, did you?
Oh, okay.
Same gaunt look.
Oh, hello.
See, something I find so interesting about this scene.
Something Sandra seemed to notice earlier is they are acting out their roles on alpha.
Like the guy who got burned.
Helena is putting dirt onto him. might not do much good, but she's being the healer here.
This is a staff meeting.
Yeah.
Like, Conig's in the middle.
That was my Monday this week.
No, no.
I run departmental meetings very similar to this.
I've usually been brutally smashed in the face with a rock.
This meeting could have been a cave painting.
Don't make me laugh at my own joke.
Martin, do you think Martin went out in the backyard and just got his face smashed with a rock?
Juliet's friend came around.
No, no, he said, I'm going to need a good bottle of Scotch.
I think I think Zenya was just sort of reacting to the fleas.
I thought he was Bob Kellett, and they had to keep it in.
And so there is a kind of weird attempt to make Nick behave like a caveman.
And I do think, like I did spend a lot of the time because I didn't understand the miss thing.
I thought that the reason that Zenny went to town on Martin with the big rock was because she was turning into a cave person as well, it just turns out she was a bitch, you know?
Much like this stuff.
It makes me wonder that if in the original script, um, you know, Helena befriends this cave person and the rest of Alpha fear the caveman and start becoming violent and sort of form a mob to get him out, get him out, get him out.
And that's where that germ of an idea comes from in this.
But yeah, it's just from what I described there is a more interesting way to explore it.
Oh, no.
I mean, this is...
This is so, so shit.
Fred Freiburger Star Trek.
This is 10 episodes before he turns up.
It's a little bit cunty of you all, but I am getting flashbacks to that episode of original Trek with the rabbit from Lewis Carroll.
Yeah, surely.
Surely...
Yeah.
I mean, I think this is very bad.
And I was thinking about Fred Freiberger and trying to find a way to blame him for it.
I think Brendan's managed it, actually.
Yeah.
It's always the most sober in the world.
Now, she hit him on the fucking sheet and he's got a massive bruise on his head.
What happened there?
It must be the effect, the mist.
Yeah. pushes lesions up.
Pushes lesion towards your hairline.
Gives you a haircut.
Yeah, yeah, your old clothes back.
I think this is the only time we see Kano actually in an eagle and...
No, it's just like we ran out of people.
It's just like where someone who's talked.
Is it driving Dr. Daisy?
Has anyone talked on this show before that we can put in the eagle?
Well, that's the thing.
Nominally it would be Paul, but you're not leaving fucking David in charge.
Because he'll just go, oh, computer says we have to leave you all by.
Good for David, eh?
And that was the right choice on this.
Oh, God.
I'm not criticising.
No one is working as hard as Xenia in this episode.
No one's working at all, eh?
I mean, really?
It's horrible.
Yeah, it's like, I'm eaten and I'm a bit nude.
Yeah.
And I'm drunk.
And I'm cold.
And these lice remind me of a holiday in Mar Bay that I had in 68 or working on.
Which I'm not going to say here.
No, did you notice there are, so you've mentioned that there, there, the people from command, which makes no sense because they're actually meant to be the Eagle Party, but there's Alan Dempsey is a member of the Cave Chief is the character's name.
So, um, but Alan Dempsey with the, he's the thinnest one of the thing anyway.
Anyway, he's in all the episodes except episode one.
Imagine waking up to that, though.
What have you just done to me, Victor?
Why you smiling like that?
And why is there a Vaseline...
Also, why have you taken my clothes off?
right.
Victor.
Around this time, I thought I thought Barb wasn't actually going to appear, but just because everyone's been talking about him, but he hasn't showed up and it's like, why else would Victor be watching over him?
Victor's not a bloody medical doctor.
No, he's just a creeper, though.
It's a bit like when Bob called him and just said, um, John's vulnerable.
It is it down here.
It's a bit like when Pertwee leans right in and says, I'm not a doctor of medicine.
Commander, have you seen any gladiator film?
Does your dog ever get really excited?
Do you like it when scraps rubs up and down your leg?
She does.
She really does.
I need to do my buy-angle.
Look, look, look at where he's Laney's arm.
What's going on here?
You boys.
Good for you.
And also, Victor, we may not get another shot of it.
But Victor actually has a seam up the back of his uniform, which no one else has got, and I think it's another easy access to this one.
It writes itself.
Are you sure about that?
Because there is only one zipper on the side.
No, it's a Graham Gordon outfit.
So it's just one thing that he zips into.
It's not a zip.
It's a seam, like the seam on the side.
Did they have to nip and talk?
Yes, maybe.
But yeah, Barb doesn't have it.
Oh, she's more flexible.
Beautiful, beautiful.
Oh my god.
Do you know what?
Like the caps on my teeth won't survive an encounter with a fucking metamucil gummy. right?
And yet these guys cabs.
Like they survive going into the midst and going back 40,000 years.
What the hell is going on?
Vanity Grills that gave him away.
It's funny.
Oh my god.
I can't tell you.
This is the life I live at my incredible...
He had exactly the same piercings.
That's right.
Chip my teeth on those, Victor.
We've never seen a caveman with a Prince Albert.
It must be alib.
I love they're called ray guns now.
Is that gorgeous?
It's called a ray gun.
Everyone is a ray gun.
Is there special word for them?
Victor never paid attention in stuff.
No.
No, I think that's it.
Meanwhile, meanwhile, working her pay this week.
We're moving from Indiana Jones and the, what's the 1st one?
Lost Templar Doom?
No, no, 1st one?
Uh...
Raiders of Lost Arks, and we're moving to Temple of Doom now.
Yes.
Calim up.
Yes, I remember, because this is the thing that we do in Doctor Who a lot, which is tie someone to a thing and then sacrifice them.
Oh my god, that fucking cardboard eagle.
Look how bad it is.
And I just like, how do they only have two?
Like, oh, maybe the other ones?
the Nazis.
That's where there's a cardboard one.
They're the 44 inches. children.
And they only had 2 barely have two.
They built another one for season two.
But yeah, there were only 244 inches.
Did they did they build?
You're greedy if you want more.
Did they build the 3rd one with the money they saved by destroying the most beautiful set in the history?
Yep, here we go.
Let's get to that.
Where does the little yellow thing come out from?
Mummy?
Pod six.
What are they doing?
Also, flambaying.
No, no, no.
I just want to say, not a com lock in site, just people living in the moment.
Oh, the, the, the timing is so weird.
Like, Alan has been wandering around these caves for at least 5 hours and it took 2 hours for Victor to remember he was on the planet.
Also, what was he doing while they were constructing the thing and tying her to her?
Duty free.
Oh, she's cross, isn't she?
She should not be a brunette.
I actually think it's a bit unpleasant.
Like that, it's actually not.
I have a question.
Why is she the only one required to wear a physical, actual leopard skin thing and take her panties off because she's the young ingenue.
Is this like pastry?
Because she only like dabbles a bit of butter on the foot and then it's all around her on the...
Yeah, you don't get to see where they crimper it.
No, and then they'll... roller and pastry and then can you imagine?
Medium oven.
Gas mark four?
Can you imagine Barbara rehearsing this in front of her daughter?
That's what she did to her the school friend.
Just stand still.
I think Babs painted all the bison and oxen as well.
Now, I don't have geese, so I'm going to use butter.
You won't feel a difference, honestly.
Just judgement from generations of Indian chefs.
I do want to say in his favour, though, it is a beautiful set and also great jug acting from the boys.
A lot of great.
Oh, yeah. titty work happening there.
But honestly, why does it always happen to Sandra?
Yeah, I know.
Yeah.
And also, why hasn't Alan shot everyone in the cave with Sunbeam by now?
I've got a gun.
Yeah, but I'm here for the show.
It's kind of like Barbara's thing here is, for fuck's sake, Nick, I'm about to stab her.
I'm just going to keep going to and now he's going to kill them all instead.
So that's our 1st shot of the stun kill.
Yes, yes, yes.
But there are 4 is at the front of the ray gun.
What do the others do?
The other one is somnolence for the team meeting.
Okay, Victor's Pass. sauté, yeah.
Yeah, no, no, no.
Springkill Mary.
Bruce, no, you've also, you've also got the, yeah, you've also got the break. lower setting. which is very useful, but not right now because it's politically incorrect.
Also finally, don't pick her up. get bitten.
That's what happened last time.
Oh, jeez, she's taking her off to the vets.
It is a great.
Also, hang on.
He just got stunned.
How do you recover in less than 2 minutes?
Oh, was there dialogue about it?
Has there been dialogue for ages?
No, but they we're doing very well.
If you stun someone, it attacks the central nervous system and it's meant to be a minimum 6 hour knockout.
It's like, he's Australian though.
He is Australian.
He's also tanked.
Now, if they had a fuck spider setting.
International listeners, not to understand the joke.
And I don't think we should explain it.
I refuse.
Use Google.
Or don't.
Use dunk dunk goat.
No, do not Google that phrase.
Well, with safe search on, I think.
Just minus hentai.
The most convincing thing in this is Helena and Sandra, honestly.
Oh, and all of that.
Yeah, that's the thing.
I think possibly it's, you know, we make fun of Barbara.
Barbara, in the mist. jumping around her garden, frightening her daughter, but she's she's she's gone.
This is a ridiculous idea.
I will take it as seriously as possible.
And they really did.
All of them.
But Thunderbird's moment, right there.
Yeah, da da da.
You tell me, I couldn't see a difference between the lighting and, you know, the whole thing between the model and the live action, and that's really hard to do.
It's a good match.
It's a really good match.
How many crew are vaping above that?
It was the 70s. were stoners.
That's just...
We put THC oil in the fog machine.
I actually had a perfect shot I was going to use at work the other day and then she started vaping.
Victor.
Heller.
How did you get your uniforms?
exactly.
Wibbly, wobbly, timey.
It's time.
It's a time thing.
We nearly lost you again.
Oh, so she remembers him being bashed in the face with a thing?
I think she remem- she remembers it like they've only just...
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
So one member of the app or Appreciation Society.
Yeah, yeah, I know.
Whoa.
He didn't have a seam up his back either.
Actually, Tanya was there too.
I'm just sure.
Poor model finishing.
They've left a seam on him.
Actually, Martin does have a scene there.
It is today.
Like, why do your pants have that?
That's a zip.
Is that a zip?
That's a zip down the side of the pants.
He's been to a lot of Victor's parties.
Now, here's the here's the problem I have.
They're like, oh, you know, it brought out our jealousy and this and that and the other.
But no one points out, and Sandra could point this out.
But commander, you protected me and you weren't trying to assault me.
You protected me like you were a leader and Dr. Russell, you were treating someone's wound.
There was still something on the thing.
Also, I wasn't turned into a caveperson and I hit you in the fucking face repeatedly.
So who's the better person?
Well, he...
So this is the HR.
A camera line. walked in front of her shot.
Fuck you.
Did you know that Martin insisted he'd only be shot from the left?
Did you notice that one in this episode?
This is a 1st for the podcast.
Has he got a tattoo?
No, he just said that was his best site.
They were very Hollywood.
Very Hollywood.
Well, Barbara won't turn her head.
Yeah, but Martin, you'll notice, now I've said it, you can't miss it.
So this this crap joke that we end the end the episode on is like Victor winked.
Yeah, only freeze game.
Like, this is series 2.
Like, this is series 210 episodes early.
This is awful.
You have to freeze frame on something that bad.
And yeah, if it were series two, those giant footprints would have been called by, of course, by Maya.
Yeah, yeah, awful. and no one mentions a terrible feat.
I should say.
Well, unless you're on the on the right Reddit.
So it's it's Oliver Cotton's wife doing the makeup for this. which is probably how he got the job.
We should also mention that this is one of only 4 episodes that have a full score by Barry Gray.
And we've not mentioned, which is one of the reasons.
It's very good.
It's actually enjoyable.
No, we've not mentioned before.
You know why there's only 4 episodes of the entire season.
That's bricken UK unions.
No, you weren't allowed to do more than that.
It makes no sense.
So it makes no sense, but that's why.
And then the rest of it is library music.
There will be along very soon to have them all killed.
Well, it's just the UK in the 70s.
There is a bit of library music in that if you want to go there.
But, um, okay.
Should we mention that Andy Dempsey, who was one of the cave personages, who's in this, is also in one of my favourites, Elizabeth R, he's an Atlantean in the time monster.
He's a Renaissance courtier in the Mask of Mandragra, and he's a 17 warrior in the face of, oh, my God, we're doing this again.
I think more side bottom in it than this.
Does anyone remember him in Cygnus Alpha and Bounty?
Oh, I mean, we all have had in Blake 7.
He died in 19, sorry, in 2014, age 68, but not of shame because he had a lovely career. very good in this.
Ah, and I see that, that lovely fellow's caught out.
I would like to actually talk about someone in this who's still alive.
Okay, Barbara Bone.
Yeah, but yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, I think that might be us done.
What do we think?
Does anyone have any closing remarks?
I'll just say that Oliver Cotton has had a long career.
His most recent credit is 2021.
Oh, no.
Really?
That's lovely.
And yeah, all sorts of stuff.
Bergerac, Oliver Twist, BBC, Shakespeare, big finish Doctor Who.
He's stoppable.
He's in one with Mrs. Clark.
Well, I love them.
So we should mention Mrs. Clarke is the World War 2 Wren and Bletchley Park codebreaker with Colin Baker's doctor.
So what's he in with her?
Quicksilver.
Well, I've got that.
I listen to it again.
Thank you.
Now, to my horror, the episode has started again.
No, we're watching a...
Oh, okay, right behind the scenario.
Okay, fair enough.
We don't need to.
Anderson looks like the emperor.
Well, yeah, we all do eventually, darling.
It's because he's saying how shit this episode was because that's all Jerry ever said. those bags under the eyes.
Circle eyes.
Sorry if Jamie's listening to this.
It's very hard to find Jerry being enthusiastic about anything.
This is true.
However, um, he also hated this episode because there were Sylvia's friends who wrote it.
And because it's terrible.
Well, I don't know.
I've never stopped him.
The problem is we don't have the original script.
All we have are Martin Landau's notes on the script because he kept very meticulous diaries of everything.
Yeah he would.
Love it.
I'm really grateful that he did.
They didn't come out till after he died.
Juliet sort of, you know, handed them over to the fan groups.
But from what I can tell, it was kind of interesting and very timey-wimey.
It was more about the space, the, the, oh, he's seeing it telling one.
I know.
I'm going to stop recording so I can hear her bitching about her. pubic lies.
I mean, she doesn't hold back.
But it sounded quite an interesting script.
It just wasn't enough for televisual.
Never work with children or lice.
Yes, no, I think that's true.
Well, there goes our podcast.
And I'll just say that Oliver Cotton was in the Dark Knight Rises, in fact.
There we go.
So he's done big shit.
Yeah.
I've never seen it.
He was probably 3rd man.
Was he?
He was he's some sort of military personage.
I wouldn't recognise him without the Joan Collins wig.
No, he's wearing it now.
Have a look.
I'm really going to watch this Doco on this is on the Blu-ray set just to see how scathing scene.
Oh, no.
She doesn't hold back.
No.
All right.
So in that case, I think we're going to finish up.
I have nothing in particular to plug for a change, you can always listen to our parent podcast, which is, of course, flight through entirety. and if you go to flightthroughentirety.com slash podcasts, you have a list of more podcasts than you could possibly.
How many terabytes are we up to now?
100s of 1000s of terabytes.
How many days and days and days and days and days.
I don't know offand.
Welcome to this stage of capital.
Exactly right.
All free, because we love you so much.
We are approaching the point of singularity where we will be releasing so many podcasts. will be impossible for you to ever catch up again.
That's right 24 hours of podcast audio a day.
We'll be releasing.
And all right.
But do you have anything that you want to plug, Brendan?
Over on the three-handed game.
We have recently started a new triptych on the Death of Empire with the Kathy Gale episode, The Gilded Cage.
Brilliant.
And this coming Friday, I plan to release an episode on Strange New Worlds subspace Rhapsody.
Golly. for Untitled Star Trek Project, which is the musical episode, and I've been practising in the shower for several hours a day.
He dropped the stoke.
Yes.
All right.
So all that remains is for me to say, until next time, remember that if you generally avoid scratching your arse in public, then you have changed quite a bit in the last 40,000 years.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
You beat me to it.
Goodbye. good itchings.